- [Instructor] Let's take a look at the steps
for the ScheduledExecutorService demo.
The first one is we have to write a class CleaningScheduler,
which is going to be a runnable implementation.
So let's head back to the IDE.
Under the Runnables package, I'll create a class,
call it CleaningScheduler.
Of course, you will have called it the CleaningProcessor
but since it's a scheduled job,
I'm trying to call it like this.
Okay, and let this implement the Runnable interface.
We want to make a runnable implementation this time.
So since it's runnable,
the method that you have to implement,
is the run method.
And let's get rid of the default implementation.
The next step is you have to write the logic
for the cleaning of files in the run method.
So what we're going to do is in the run method,
we are going to pick up a folder from our drive.
Now, that folder could be anything.
It's completely your choice.
The files present inside the folder, again,
completely your choice.
There's really not a requirement or hard and fast rule here
to have this kind of a folder, or certain kind of files.
So basically, you can pick up any drive on your system,
any folder on that drive and any list of files
that you may want to delete.
Let me show you my folder.
My folder looks like this.
Under the D: drive, I have a folder called serverlogs.
And so I'm trying to clean up the serverlogs periodically,
that's the objective of this use case.
So I have a few files present under that folder,
and I'm gonna check the timestamp on each of them,
and then delete them.
So let's get back to the IDE and let's write a call for it.
Get the file object, let's call it folder,
and say new File,
and let's embed the path.
That'll be D: drive /serverlogs,
that's the folder I'm looking for.
And if I wanted the total number of files in this folder,
then there's an API that I have.
And that API is going to return me an array of files.
So let's take the output in an array.
Let's say files.
How do I get the files?
I just have to say, list files.
There we go, okay.
And then I want to iterate this array,
so for every file object in the files array,
I'm going to check whether the timestamp on that file
is basically older than today, okay.
And the time period that I'm trying to look at
is let's say five minutes, okay.
So let's say the currentTime,
the currentTime, we will get it in millis,
using the currentTimeMillis API.
And to this I'm going to subtract from this
the lastModified time on the file.
So if the subtraction turns out to be
greater than five minutes,
so I have to convert five minutes into milliseconds,
so that will be five into 60 into 1000.
So I'm trying to check whether the difference
in the timestamp from today is greater than five minutes.
If yes, then I'm just going to put a sys out, first,
and say that This file will be deleted.
What is the file?
Get the file object, and just invoke the getName, call.
Right, so that will give the name of the file.
And then you can just hit the delete API.
So in case you find any files that are
having the older timestamps, they'll just be deleted.
And you just notifying it,
saying that this is the file that you want to delete.
All right, the next step is,
in the test class you're to
get the ScheduledExecutorService object,
and then schedule the job for the CleaningScheduler.
So let's go to the Tests folder, say New, Java class,
TestSchedulors, okay.
Let's grab the main method.
And this time we are going to get the
ScheduledExecutorService object.
How do I get it?
Again, get the hold of the Executor's utility,
there we go.
And on this, you have newSingleThreadScheduledExecutor,
that's the API that we want to invoke.
Okay, and once we've done with that,
you just have to take the service and say .schedule.
Right? So do you see?
There are two versions of schedule,
one which takes callable and the other,
which takes runnable.
So I'm going to use that.
It has three arguments, one is the instance
of the runnable, then the delay.
Delay is once the application starts,
how much delay is something that you want to wait for
before this cleaning starts off.
So let's take that method and say new
CleaningScheduler, the instance of a runnable.
Let's say I want to start the job
after an initial delay of five,
and the time unit is seconds.
Let's go ahead and try to run this.
One, two, three, four, and five.
There we go.
So after the initial delay of five seconds,
it actually told me that it has already found files
which have an older timestamp,
so it's going to delete them.
That's all.
This is how we can schedule your job in the application.